In this lesson we're going to be looking at Ajax So what is Ajax Ajax it basically is short for Asynchronous
JavaScript and Exham else let me put that out here and I'm going to update this one.
So Asynchronous JavaScript and SML and this predominately Nowadays we use it to pull back some data
and basically So Ajax is not a programming language and it's a combination of basically allowing us
to make HTP request in the background using script.
So this is an ace DTP request as if you go to any web page HTP request but we allow us to do this using
javascript and basically allows us to load content into our web page.
So let me show you an example.
So basically we've got the web browser we've got the user user interface and the HTP request sends it
over in order to get additional information.
And the web server typically done to a web server and this can also be loading a web page in or are
a file or file contents.
And that gets sent back to the user interface.
So it's not
much different then if you're browse into a page.
But the key here is this Ajax engine.
And so this was done by javascript that javascript in the middle allows us to request web page data.
So basically you can load content without reloading the page.
So that's what really is.
That's what AJAX is all about.
And this is exactly what we need for our Jason file in order to load it so that whenever any of these
values change we can simply load it and we can load all of the contents of there and then utilize that
as we normally would.
So we're basically reading the contents of a file into our Javascript.
So let's set up that function in order to load Jason.
So I call it function and it's going to basically load on data and we'll have a callback there as well.
So whatever our Web page loads that's when I want to initialize and load Jaison.
So let's create a function.
I NIIT.
So this is our initialization function.
And what's going to happen is that this is actually going to load that Jaison data.
So we don't use the function load.
Jason and because this is a callback.
So it basically whatever data is responded.
So whatever that response data is that we can make use of it within hours upon Syria and basically for
now we'll just console log it the response value.
And this can make a lot more sense as we progressed through this lesson so not to worry if right now
maybe it seems I might be going a little bit fast through the explanation.
But let's set this up and I'm sure that's going to work.
And then we can go through more detailed explanation of Jason.
And believe me once you start using AJAX and Jaison together it's the perfect match it works.
They work so well together that you can get this response information from the file and then basically
loop through it and make use of it.
So maybe first we're actually going to do it with the callback and then I'll show you why we're including
the callback because it's it just makes it function a little bit better.
So what I need to do is I simply need to load Giese on so that's the first time that we're going to
do that.
We're just going to run that function to load Jason and I'm going to comment this one for now and then
I'll show you what the differences between the two is a little bit easier to understand if we're not
doing the callback because you don't need the callback in order to do Ajax.
So basically we're loading the page and then we're loading the Jae's on file.
So that's what's happening right now.
So first thing that we need to do we need to establish an X M-L HTP request object.
So this is available just as we've created other objects that we make use of.
So I just call it X H.R. you can call it whatever you like whatever makes sense.
And basically you're creating a new X M-L and all of this did start as SML.
So that's why whenever we're making those requests even though we're getting Jason we type SML HTP request
object.
So basically allows us to create a brand new one and all console log this out for now so that we can
take a closer look and we can see what's contained within here.
So go back out and refresh it.
So there's the H.T. SML HTP request object and you can see that there's quite a lot of information in
there.
So we know that what we need to do is we need to send a request.
So there's a number of methods here and we need to also identify where the file is what we're trying
to open.
So these are the next two parameters that we need to include here.
So let's set those up.
So let's do X H.R. and we're going to use the method open and this is where we specify how we're opening
it and of course we've got different methods so we can do a get or post.
So I'm going to do a get and the next we need to provide a file path.
So I've got a g son and I are going to rename that one to Jay's son one.
So go down here and get rid of this.
So that's just going to sit as a regular Jasen object.
So I'm just going to go ahead and save this as Jason one.
Jason same directory so that we can access it.
So we know we're trying to open that file.
And lastly we can specify if it's asynchronous or synchronous.
So synchronous asynchronous is true and synchronous as false.
So that's where we get that last parameter there that it's either true or false.
So let's refresh now again.
And we see that what we have now is ready state one because we've actually sent it and we've gone to
the point where we're actually trying to open something up.
So that means that we've got ready state one and there's one other thing that we need to do is we need
to actually send our request that's just done by the method send.
So let's see what happens now.
And we run into our error.
So this is a cross origin request and basically the problem here is that we're trying to open up a file
and the path for the file is file call and forward slash forward slash K and then this is basically
our address and we can't do these types across origin requests so even though this is sitting on the
same directory we can actually access it.
If you've got a local server running or a local host running you could access it then you can do HTP
data Crome and so on Chrome extension HGT.
So those ones are supported formats.
So we need to actually have a different protocol.
We can't do a File protocol and this is one of the security features of javascript that you can't have
these scripts that run and they can simply pick up files off of the computer.
So we don't want that to happen.
And that's why a lot of times if you try to run this locally you're going to get this cross origin problem.
So the problem for that the solution for that is to get an HD T-P address so I'm going to simply place
that in there and see that.
So that's going to give me you are l and then I can take that you or else so this is where our contents
are sitting.
And I can simply load that in there.
Refresh.
And our error is gone.
And now we can actually see we get response and response text and notice this is exactly what we needed
in order to return back that Giese on formatted data.
So this is exactly what we needed.
So now we're actually ready to make use of the respondent information.
So I'll show you some additional pieces that we can also see.
And there's a number of other values in here that are really important to take a closer look at.
So ready state is one.
So ready state basically changes depending on how far you get with the file.
And if you get make it to ready state for that means that you actually connected with the file and you've
received back information.
It's the same thing as status 200.
So sometimes it's a great idea to kind of check to see if the ready state has changed and if it does
then you know that you've got some data there that you can respond back.
So that's exactly what the next step is that we're actually we've made our request we've retrieved back
some information and now we're able to actually check the ready state.
So basically we see that we've got an answer they're all ready to go.
And this is where within the request.
So usually I do it at the top there.
So it's X a char and the method is on ready state change.
So this is the one that we're looking for and if that changes then we fire off this anonymous function.
And then within here we can check the ready state values.
So let's let's first log out the ready state values so you can see that there's actually going to be
a progression and a change in those.
So we're just going to do a char ready state or we can also use this as well.
So this is just referring to the current object that a char object.
So either one is fine.
So let's get ready state.
We'll get that ready state value and let's reload that one more time.
So you refresh it and you see that we start out ready state and one that we get ready state to ready
state 3 and get ready state for.
We know we've got some data to respond and to make use of.
So that's it.
So now we can pull back that response text.
So there's a response center response text.
Most of the time we use response text and we know that previously from objects we know that we can get
this response text within our console in our Javascript.
And basically now we can make use of it as needed.
So let's let's create a variable to hold this value.
So I'm going to simply create variable and it's going to be H Tim L and then within here is wearing
going to get the response text.
So do you remember how we could bring it into a usable Jaison format.
So instead of mightst him out let's call it my object.
So what I want you to do now pause the video connects.
So update and add your file if you're not using a local host or a local system.
You can't run this this is part of the JavaScript that's not going to run with just opening up the file
in the browser are you going to come across those cores errors.
And so a number of solutions go to my adjacent com place or on in there and just get that you are all
linked or if you've got a server you can upload it there.
So as long as you're doing HTP or HTP s within the file location then you can pull that back or if you've
got a local server running.
So that means that you're not going to something like that we have here.
So the protocols not file.
You're doing an HTP and that's what you need in order to load it.
So go ahead and create that file whether it's in my guess on dot com or another format and pull it in
try to pull it into your file.
And then lastly pause the video and once you get that response text in I actually output that response
text as an object within Javascript.
So go ahead and try that.
And I see the solution coming up.
So we did see that we had JS saw an object and if we parse a string that means that we can parse it
in and make it usable.
Within Javascript.
So that's all it was.
We just needed to parse that information through and notice that we only get the value here at the end.
But it is usable.
So there was one other thing that we do need to add in and we know that we're doing this ready state
change but we need to check what the ready state is because we only have the data that we can actually
make use of that data only right at the end.
So that was what the problem here was that I'm not sure if you experienced the same thing but you probably
caught a bunch of errors and then at the end it did work out.
So this is where we can do this and we can check the ready state and we can just ensure that ready state
is equal to 400.
And also if you want to be doubly sure you can do this status.
And if we do this status make sure that status is equal to 200 because that means that we've connected
to the file.
So now when I refresh it we're only going to hit this and we're going to try to read the response text
when the ready status for and a status is 200.
So there we go.
So now we've pulled back the file and we can make use of it within our Javascript.
And that's exactly what we're going to do in the upcoming lesson.
So go ahead and try that out and pull in some information from a file pull that information into your
javascript and output it within your console.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you the next steps coming up in the next lesson.